# Rutgers-Football-Losing-Analysis
Our Project aims to analyze why the Rutgers Scarlet Knights Football team finished the 2025 season with a losing 5-7 record. Using game statistics, player data, and schedule performance data sets, we will explore what factors are contributing most to Rutgers’ losses during the 2025 season.

Each of the files are labeled with the step of the data science pipeline that they are a part of. Running each of the files in a systematic manner (ingestion, cleaning, feature_engineering, queryanalysis, eda, visualizations, machinelearningmodels) will result in similar results as we have discussed in our final report for the project.

We chose to structure our project in this manner with the data, results, and src (code scripts) in separate folders because that helped keep the storage, implementation, and outcome of the data in separate locations which made it easier to not only track errors when debugging but also keeps the organization of the project clean and structured. We also chose to separate each aspect of the data science pipeline into their own python script files and then run all these scripts in order in the main because it allows for all the steps of the data science pipeline to be run in a systematic manner and approach. 

To run the project: first you must clone the project via the link to create it on your local machine. You can copy the link from the HTTPS link under the green code button from this repo. Then, you should make a folder within your file explorer that will store this project. Then, go to Visual Studio Code and open a new window and select Clone Git Repository and input the HTTPS link into the input box. After this, select the folder made as the place to clone the repo and that will generate a window that has the project directly stored in that folder. You want to ensure that this folder is opened directly so that all the contents of this project are directly seen (no subfolders besides the folders in this project). Then go to the terminal and run: python src/main.py and this will run each of our scripts (parts of the data science pipeline) one by one and print their results and generate the necessary visualizations in results folder and clean data in database, and you will see a completion message once all scripts are done running.
